# pcb-rom - generate Eagle board file for inductively-coupled PCB ROM

Copyright 2016-2017 Eric Smith <spacewar@gmail.com>

pcb-rom development is hosted at the
[pcb-rom Github repository](https://github.com/brouhaha/pcb-rom/).

## Introduction

Before Read Only Memory (ROM) was available in integrated circuit
form, a number of interesting technologies were used, including core
rope memory (aka wire braid memory) used in the Apollo Guidance
Computer.  For the IBM System/360 computers announced in 1964, IBM
used Card Capacitor Read Only Store (CCROS), Balanced Capacitor Read
Only Store (BCROS), and Transformer Read Only Store (TROS).  TROS was
conceptually quite similar to core rope memory, but designed to be
more easily assembled.

When HP introduced the HP 9100A desktop programmable scientific
calculator in 1968, it used two forms of ROM. A small microcode ROM,
64 words of 29 bits, used core rope memory, and a larger main firmware
ROM, 512 words of 64 bits, used an inductively coupled printed circuit
board (PCB) ROM.  The PCB ROM is also conceptually similar to core
rope memory, though different in detail.

The HP 9100 PCB ROM used a 16-layer printed circuit board with eight
pairs of layers.  Of each pair, one layer is devoted to drive lines,
for word addressing, and the other to sense lines, for bits of output
data.  The overall density of the ROM exceeded 1000 bits per square
inch.

This program generates an Eagle CAD ".brd" file for a four-layer PCB
with a single pair of drive and sense lines, for a 64 word x 64 bit
ROM (4096 bits total), using a 512 byte binary file as input.  Layers
one and two of a four-layer board are used because the prepreg
separating those layers can be much thinner than a normal two-layer
board.

As of 2017-05-28, no board design generated by this program has actually
been fabricated, so it is unknown whether the generated design is actually
workable.


## Limitations:

* while there are command line arguments intended to allow parameterized
  board design, the program will likely not work correctly with any
  non-default settings


## License information:

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of version 3 of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
